How did viewing a diff between two versions of a file help you see the bug that was introduced?
viewing a diff helped limit the search significantly, since only changes had to be reviewed.

How could having easy access to the entire history of a file make you a more efficient programmer in the long term?
You would be able to undo mistakes you made
You would be more open to making drastic changes, knowing that you could always revert to the previous working version

What do you think are the pros and cons of manually choosing when to create a commit, like you do in Git, vs having versions automatically saved, like Google docs does?
pro: each commit has a clear logical purpose
con: if you forget to commit your code might get lost

Why do you think some version control systems, like Git, allow saving multiple files in one commit, while others, like Google Docs, treat each file separately?
Git is designed with code in mind, when a project may involve multiple files
Others treat each documents separately, assuming the files are not dependent.

How can you use the commands git log and git diff to view the history of files?
git log  # lists all commits along with description
git diff [first id] [second id] shows the changes between the two commits, so that it is easy to see which lines have been added or deleted

How might using version control make you more confident to make changes that could break something?
You will no longer be worried, since you could always revert to a previous version.

Now that you have your workspace set up, what do you want to try using Git for?
All remaining class projects and personal projects


Notes on command line:
pwd # print working directory - shows what directory you are in
ls # list the files in this directory

cd ~                          # change directories to your home directory
cd ..						  # change directories to one level up
mkdir version-control         # make version-control directory
cd version-control            # go to version-control directory
mkdir reflections             # create reflections directory
cd reflections                # go to reflections directory
subl lesson_1_reflections.txt # launch sublime with file called lesson_1_reflections.txt
git --version # checks git version

Choosing when to commit is a judgement call, and it's not always cut-and-dried. When choosing whether to commit, just keep in mind that each commit should have one clear, logical purpose, and you should never do too much work without committing.

comparing files

$git diff [first id] [second id]


copying entire repository

git clone [followed by a URL to the repository]

fa4c6bade4970c282b3870ad16f1bde8164663a9


To get colored diff output, run

git config --global color.ui auto


show a list of the recent commits with information about them, including commit IDs

git log

git diff followed by two commit IDs will compare the two versions of the code in those commits

you may enter the first four or more characters of the commit ID rather than pasting the entire ID

git checkout
resets all files to how they were at the time the commit was made


Git command review

Compare two commits, printing each line that is present in one commit but not the other.

git diff will do this. It takes two arguments - the two commit ids to compare.


Make a copy of an entire Git repository, including the history, onto your own computer.

git clone will do this. It takes one argument - the url of the repository to copy.


Temporarily reset all files in a directory to their state at the time of a specific commit.

git checkout will do this. It takes one argument - the commit ID to restore.


Show the commits made in this repository, starting with the most recent.

git log will do this. It doesn't take any arguments.


scp command lets you securely copy a directory from one computer to another

git config --global core.editor "'c:/<path to sublime>/sublime_text.exe' -w $*"

----------Lesson 2------------

ls -a #shows hidden files too

to make a git repository in existing directory:
1. ls -a #to list current contents
2. git init # initializes/reates new git repository
3. if you run ls -a again you will see that a .git directory has been created
4. git status # shows which files have changed since the last commit
5. git add #to add files to the staging area
6. git commit #opens text editor to write commit message; standard practice is to write it like a command, e.g. add a cake recipe

git diff # with no arguments will show the changes you have made in the working directory that you have not added to the staging area yet
git diff --staged # will show the changes between staging area and the most recent commit
git reset --hard #will discard any changes in either the working directory or the staging area - if you run this command you cannot get those changes back
git checkout master # fixes detached HEAD state

Branches
git branch #shows current branches
git brach easy-mode # when you give an argument a new branch is created with that name
* next to brach name means that that brach is currently checked out
git checkout easy-mode #switches active branch to easy-mode branch

git log --graph --oneline master coins
git checkout -b new_branch_name # equivalent of running two commands-- git branch new_branch_name and git checkout new_branch_name

Merging Branches
1. verify and checkout the right branch
git branch
git checkout master

2. git merge master coins #creates merged version of the two branches

3. git brach -d coins #deletes the brach label coins (commits are retained)


git show [commit id] #shows what changes were made by the commit compared to its parent

Adding master to easy-mode branch
1. checkout easy-mode branch
2 run git merge master easy-mode

----------Lesson 3------------
Adding a remote
1. create a repository on github
 log into github accout
 press plus icon next to username
 select new repository
 name the repository ("reflections")
 leave as public
 you don't want to initialize the repository with a README because you already have files in your repository (otherwise a good idea, because then the repository will start out with one commit in it and you cannot clone a repository with zero commits)

2. add the repository on github as a remote to the repository on your computer
 git remote # to view and create remotes (run with no arguments to see existing remotes)
 git remote add # to add a github repository as remote (need to add a name; if you only have one remote, the standard practice is to name it "origin")
 then we need to add the URL of the remote, copy if from github
 git remote add origin URL-goes-here
 now if you run git remote again you will see that origin remote has been created
 to verify that the URL was added correctly, run git remote -v (v is for verbose)
 it will show URLs for fetch and push, often they will be the same URL

3. send changes to the remote
 git push takes two arguments, the remote you want to send changes to and the name of the local branch that you want to push
 git push origin master
 refresh page on github to confirm that all your files have been added


Pulling a commit to sync local version with remote version
run git log to confirm that remote commit is not present int the local repository
to get it run git pull, you need to specify the remote and the branch you want to pull
git pull origin master

Forking a repository
Allows you to make a copy of someone else's repository directly on the GitHub servers without pulling down the code to your local machine first

A Fork is just a clone that GitHub makes for you on their own machines
GitHub keeps track of the number of people who have forked a repository and links forked repository to the original
It also make it easy to suggest changes back to original repository
forking is only used in the context of GitHub, while clonning works on any two repositories

1. visit the repository you want to fork on GitHub
2. click fork button #a copy of the repository will be added to your profile
3. to edit the repository on your local computer, you also want to clone the fork, to do so copy clone URL
4. git clone URL-goes-here
5. cd into new repository

When you clone a repository Git automatically sets up a remote pointing to the repository you cloned from
verify this by running:
git remote -v
you will see a remote called origin and a URL that points to your forked repository on github

If  you want someone to collaborate with you, you can give them permission to push to your repository
Go to settings --> collaborators and add a github username [sara's is salogel42]

git pull origin master is the same as git fetch origin and git merge master origin/master


Making a Pull Request - allows proposing changes to original repository

1. create a new branch
	git branch different-oil

2. commit changes to new branch
	git checkout different-oil
	git add cake-recipe.txt
	git commit

3. push new branch to GitHub
	git push origin different-oil

4. on GitHub, click Compare & pull request